# Identify Customer Segments

Project 3 for Udacity's Data Scientist Nanodegree

## Overview

In this project we identified customer segments in a real dataset containing general
public information about a subsection of the German population. The dataset was provided by
Arvato. 

The objectives of this project were:

1. Clean and preprocess a real dataset with high dimensionality
2. Build a data processing pipeline
3. Apply PCA to reduce dataset dimensionallity
4. Analyze the new features generated by PCA
5. Apply k-means to the PCA-transformed dataset to identify clusters in the population
6. Apply the same process to a dataset containing know customers. Identify to which clusters the customers belong to

## Methods

We used pandas tools for data processing and the PCA and K-means tools from Scikit-learn.
The dimensionality of the PCA space was chosen based on the condition that 80% of the
variance should be explained by the model. The number of clusters were chosen using
scree plots of the mean point-to-centroid distances and the k-means score.

## Conclusions

- A 37-dimensional PCA space was used to explain 80% of the variance
- By comparing with the original axis, we were able to interpret a sample of the new features created by PCA
- The general could be effectivelly categorized using only 10 clusters
- We identified 3 clusters containing an excess of customers compared to the general population 

These clusters showed that the preferred customers lived in low-density regions. They are socially and family-minded, 
dreamful, interested in culture but with high financial interest. They probably had a membership in green organizations
during their youth and they were mainly of the avantgarde movement. Probably they are still married and their sons and
daughters live with them. They are very active online.
